Etc backup doc (#1908)
deckhouse/deckhouse: modules/040-control-plane-manager/docs/internal/ETCD_RECOVERY.md

   ```

1. Copy backup file to `~/etc-backup.snapshot`.

1. Restore the etcd database.

   ```shell
   ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl snapshot restore ~/etc-backup.snapshot --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
     --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.key --endpoints https://127.0.0.1:2379/  --data-dir=/var/lib/etcd
   ```

1. Start etcd.

   ```shell
   mv ~/etcd.yaml /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml
   ```

## Multi-master

### Complete data loss or recovery to previous state from a backup

If there is a complete loss of data, perform the following steps on all nodes of the etcd cluster:
1. Stop etcd.

   ```shell
   mv /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml ~/etcd.yaml
   ```

1. Back up your files.

   ```shell
   cp -r /var/lib/etcd/member/ /var/lib/deckhouse-etcd-backup
   ```

1. Delete the data directory.

   ```shell
   rm -rf /var/lib/etcd/member/
   ```

Select any node as first recovered.

On another (two) nodes do the following:
1. Stop kubelet.

   ```shell
   systemctl stop kubelet.service
   ```

1. Remove all containers.

   ```shell
   systemctl list-units --full --all | grep -q docker.service && systemctl restart docker

>    kill $(ps ax | grep containerd-shim | grep -v grep |awk '{print $1}')

Reviewer: Do we really need to stop kubelet and restart docker?
If we'll not doing that crictl will be available on the node:

```
crictl pods --name etcd-${HOSNTAME}
```

>    kill $(ps ax | grep containerd-shim | grep -v grep |awk '{print $1}')

Author: Yep, we should restart kubelet because on node works control-plane manager. It can be restarted and we can get state when control-plane-manager will start etcd with empty state and node can not join in the cluster

  --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.key --endpoints https://127.0.0.1:2379/  --data-dir=/var/lib/etcd
  ```

- add the `--force-new-cluster` flag to the `~/etcd.yaml` manifest;
- try to run etcd:

  ```shell
  mv ~/etcd.yaml /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml
  ```

- remove the `--force-new-cluster` flag from the `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml` manifest after successful up etcd;
- set [HA-mode](https://deckhouse.io/en/documentation/v1/deckhouse-configure-global.html#parameters-highavailability) for prevent removing HA-mode (for example we can lose one prometheus replica and data for lost replica);
- remove master role label from nodes objects expect selected (recover in current time)

  ```shell
  kubectl label no NOT_SELECTED_NODE_1 node.deckhouse.io/group- node-role.kubernetes.io/master- node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane-
  kubectl label no NOT_SELECTED_NODE_2 node.deckhouse.io/group- node-role.kubernetes.io/master- node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane-
  ```

On another nodes, start kubelet:

  ```shell
  systemctl start kubelet.service
  ```

On first recovered node do the following:

> - restart and wait readiness Deckhouse

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- restart and wait for Deckhouse to be ready
```

  ```shell
  kubectl -n d8-system rollout restart deployment deckhouse
  ```

>   if Deckhouse Pod stuck in Terminating state, force delete Pod:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If Deckhouse Pod is stuck in a Terminating state, forcibly delete the Pod:
```

  ```shell
  kubectl -n d8-system delete po -l app=deckhouse --force
  ```

  if you got error `lock the main queue: waiting for all control-plane-manager Pods to become Ready`, force remove control plane Pods for another nodes

> - and wait for control plane Pod rolling over and becoming `Ready`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- And wait for the control plane Pod to roll over and become `Ready`.
```

  kubectl label no LOST_NODE_2 node.deckhouse.io/group- node-role.kubernetes.io/master- node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane-
  ```

If nodes have been lost permanently, add new ones using the `dhctl converge` command (or manually if the cluster is static).
Don't forget to delete objects of lost nodes.

If the nodes have been lost temporarily, they are no longer members of the cluster.

To turn them into cluster members, do the following on those nodes:

- stop etcd:

  ```shell
  mv /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml ~/etcd.yaml
  ```

- back up your files:

  ```shell
  cp -r /var/lib/etcd/member/ /var/lib/deckhouse-etcd-backup
  ```

- delete the data directory:

  ```shell
  rm -rf /var/lib/etcd/member/
  ```

- clear node

  ```shell
  rm -f /etc/kubernetes/manifests/{etcd,kube-apiserver,kube-scheduler,kube-controller-manager}.yaml
  rm -f /etc/kubernetes/{scheduler,controller-manager}.conf
  rm -f /etc/kubernetes/authorization-webhook-config.yaml
  rm -f /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf /root/.kube/config
  rm -rf /etc/kubernetes/deckhouse
  rm -rf /etc/kubernetes/pki/{ca.key,apiserver*,etcd/,front-proxy*,sa.*}
  ```

> - restart and wait readiness Deckhouse

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Restart and wait for Deckhouse to be ready:
```

  ```shell
  kubectl -n d8-system rollout restart deployment deckhouse
  ```

> - and wait for control plane Pod rolling over and becoming `Ready`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Wait for the control plane Pods to roll over and become `Ready`.
```

  ```shell
  watch "kubectl -n kube-system get po -o wide | grep d8-control-plane-manager"
  ```

> - check node etcd member has peer and client host as internal node ip

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Check node etcd member has peer and client host as internal node IP:
```

  ```shell
  kubectl -n kube-system exec -ti ETCD_POD -- /bin/sh -c 'ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.key --endpoints https://127.0.0.1:2379/ member list -w table'
  ```

For each lost nodes:
- add master role

  ```shell
  kubectl label no LOST_NODE_I node.deckhouse.io/group= node-role.kubernetes.io/master= node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane=
  ```

> Wait for all control plane Pods rolling over and becoming `Ready`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wait for all control plane Pods to roll over and become `Ready`.
```

   ```

1. If there is an `alarm:NOSPACE`, run the following command:

   ```shell
   kubectl -n kube-system exec -ti ETCD_POD_ON_AFFECTED_HOST -- /bin/sh -c 'ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
     --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.key --endpoints https://127.0.0.1:2379/ alarm disarm'
   ```

1. Defragment etcd (if necessary):

   ```shell
   kubectl -n kube-system exec -ti ETCD_POD_ON_AFFECTED_HOST -- /bin/sh -c 'ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
     --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.key --endpoints https://127.0.0.1:2379/ defrag --command-timeout=60s'
   ```

### Second method

#### Single-master

This method can be used if the first one has failed.

Do the following:

1. Upload [etcdctl](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/releases) to the server (best if it has the same version as the etcd version on the server).

   ```shell
   wget "https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/releases/download/v3.5.4/etcd-v3.5.4-linux-amd64.tar.gz"
   tar -xzvf etcd-v3.5.4-linux-amd64.tar.gz && mv etcd-v3.5.4-linux-amd64/etcdctl /usr/local/bin/etcdctl

>    ```

Reviewer: this might not work in isolated enviroments, and it might be not easy to support actual versions of etcd in this doc. How about using etcdctl from the already existing image?

Just an idea:

```
crictl exec $(crictl ps -q --name image-holder-etcd) cat /usr/bin/etcdctl > ./etcdctl
```

Not sure who actually run these image-holder containers? What if they are not existing?

Author: Etcd can be not running. I have another [idea](https://github.com/deckhouse/deckhouse/issues/1909)
